On my way to school, there is an old man with a yellow flag at a crosswalk. He uses

it to stop the cars and watches us as we walk across the street. Every day he says good

morning to the children. Some of them say, "Good morning," in a cheerful voice, but some

say it in a very small voice and just walk by him. I was one of them.

One day I caught a cold and stayed in bed for three days. After I got better, I

walked to school. He said to me, "I didn't see you for a few days. Are you OK today?" I

was surprised! He remembered my face!

A week later, there was a meeting at school and two police officers came. They told

us how to ride a bike safely and to be very careful at crosswalks. Then three traffic

safety volunteers were introduced. One of them was the old man who said, "Are you OK

today?" He said, "I am Sakai Hiroshi. Every morning, your cheerful voices and smiles

make me happy. Seven years ago, when I was driving in the morning, I was not very

careful and my car almost hit a little girl. She was surprised and started to cry. I got out

of my car and tried to talk to her, but she just ran away. I felt very sorry because I

couldn't say anything to her. She was as old as my granddaughter, and I still remember

her crying face. After that, I wanted to do something for children, so I started to work as

a volunteer for children's safety and watch them on their way to school."

I was impressed and thought about many things. He had a bad experience, but he

started volunteer work after that. He watches us every day, even when it rains or snows.

He remembers our faces, too. There are also many other volunteers around me. I knew

my family, my friends and my teachers think about me, but I didn't know other people do,

too. I am watched by many people in my community! When I learned this, my heart

became warm. I felt a strong connection with them.

The next morning, I said in a loud voice with a smile, "Good morning, Mr. Sakai.

Thank you very much."