About six months ago, I saw a picture of my friend, Akio, in the library news. It was

in front of the school library. He was smiling with a book in his hand. I wasn't reading

very much at that time, but I started to enjoy reading again that day. I'll tell you why.

When I was little, my mother always read books to me before I slept. They were

interesting to me. In elementary school, I liked to read the books in our classroom. Also,

going to the school library was fun. I spent three or four days in a week there and read

stories, picture books and newspapers. I couldn't think of life without books.

When did I stop reading books for fun? It was after I became a junior high school

student. The baseball club members practice a lot every day, so I didn't have time to

read. When I was reading the library news six months ago, Akio saw me and said, "I've

never seen you here before." Then, he went into the library. I walked in, too. He showed

me a book and said, "This book is very interesting. I think you'll like it, too." I looked at

the book and said to myself, "Akio practices baseball with me late every day, but he still

finds time to read. He reads so many books!" The book was the life story of a baseball

player. I liked that baseball player very much, so I decided to borrow it.

Now I really love that story. The baseball player made people around the world

excited. Then, one day he had a car accident and was in the hospital for ten months.

This changed his life. He decided to help people with difficulties. He gave baseball

tickets to sick children. He began to teach baseball in poor countries. I was impressed by

his life. I liked the player before I read about him, but now I like him better than before.

We can change our difficulties into something good. The book changed my view of life.

I've found many good books and they've taught me a lot of things. It is interesting

to learn new things and see many different views of life. Also, it is exciting to

read about things we can never do in real life. You should go to the library.

are waiting for you there.