Last summer I went to New York and stayed with the Brown family, Mr. and

Mrs. Brown and their son Tom, for two weeks. Everyone in the host family was always

kind to me. When I told Mr. and Mrs. Brown about my family and showed them some

pictures, they listened to me carefully. Tom is as old as I. We listened to music together

and talked about our favorite singers. Now I'm going to tell you about things I learned

during this stay.

First, about making words short. I heard the word OJ for the first time when I went

to a hamburger shop with Tom. He said to the clerk, "One OJ, please." I asked him,

"What's OJ? What does it mean?" He answered, "Well, you'll see." Can you guess what

it means? He showed me his cup. "Wow, OJ is short for orange juice! We also make

words short in Japanese. English and Japanese are very different, but this is the same.

It's interesting," I said to him.

Second, I learned that they have futons in America. On the fifth day, Mrs. Brown

said to me, "How do you like our futon? Do you use a futon in your home in Japan, too?"

Her words surprised me. "The word futon came from the Japanese word futon! I didn't

notice that because the two words sounded different," I said to her. At night on the first

day, she told me to use the futon, and I slept on that nice sofa. The thing she called a

futon wasn't like futon used in Japan. I said, "The word is the same, but the meanings

are different. How interesting!"

Visiting another country is wonderful. It teaches us a lot of things. Now I think it is

very interesting to know things that are the same or different between languages. This is

one of the good things that we can learn in other countries. If

we can

think more about our own language.

On the last day, Mr. Brown said to me, "Come back here, Kenji. This is also your

home." I was moved by his words and said, "I'll come back again to study English more."

I still keep them in mind and I'll never forget them.