I have a very good friend. His name is Takuya. We have been friends since we were

in elementary school. In junior high school, we played tennis together. Now I am going to

tell you about our tennis days.

"Which club will you join, Ken?" Takuya asked me when we entered our junior high

school in April. "Actually, I haven't decided yet, but have you. . ." I answered and was

going to ask him about his plan. He stopped me and said, "Let's play tennis together.

I want you to be my partner." He started playing it one year ago in elementary school.

He continued, "I've got a new racket, so you can use this old one." I was surprised to

hear that because I knew he took great care of it. A few days later I went to the tennis

club with it and became a member.

Almost every day we practiced tennis together. Everything was new to me, and it

was a lot of fun. In the summer of that year, Takuya became my partner, and we entered

a tournament for the first time. I decided to try my best on that day, but I made many

mistakes and we lost. I didn't know what to say to Takuya. I thought, "What do Takuya

and other members think about me?" I didn't want to play tennis any more. Then I did

not even speak to him. Things did not change for a while.

Then one day, Takuya talked to me, "Hi, Ken! We haven't practiced tennis together

after the tournament finished.

" I said, "If you play with me, I will

make mistakes and we will lose again. . ." He said, "If you do nothing, things will not

change and you won't be a better player." Then he smiled and said, "Making mistakes is

OK if you are trying!" I was surprised and couldn't say anything. I was afraid of playing

tennis after the tournament and did nothing. It was the biggest mistake that I have

made. His words changed my mind. After that I practiced harder, made many mistakes,

and became a better player.

Our junior high school tennis days have just finished, but I learned a lot from Takuya

through tennis. One' thing is for sure. Trying something and making mistakes is better

than doing

B . I will have chances to find something new if I try.