Hi, everyone. Now I would like to introduce my favorite Japanese word. You have

heard it many times since the Hokuriku Shinkansen started to run in Ishikawa last year.

Now I think most of you already know the answer. Yes. It's Omotenashi. When you

hear this word, you may think you have to do something special. But there are many

things you can do easily as Omotenashi. OK, now I will tell you a little about my

experience.

Last month, I took a bus to go to the concert hall near Kanazawa Station. When it

stopped at Kenrokuen-shita bus stop, a woman came on the bus with a big traveling bag

and an umbrella. The bus was very crowded and there was no seat for her. So, I stood

up and said to her, "Please sit down here." She said, "Thank you very much. People in

Ishikawa are so kind." "No, no. This is just something I always do when I meet

someone with baggage," I said. I talked with her until the bus arrived at Kanazawa

Station.

She was a traveler from Tokyo. It was the last day of her trip and she was going

to take the Shinkansen back to Tokyo. I asked, "How was your trip here in Ishikawa?"

She said, "It was great! It all started with this umbrella." "This umbrella?" I asked.

"Yes, when I arrived at Kanazawa Station on the first day, it was raining very hard. But

there were some umbrellas for travelers at the station, so I borrowed this one and

began traveling around Ishikawa. I was so happy." Then she told me many things she

loved about Ishikawa. "I went to Mt. Haku and could

the beautiful

view there.

I also visited a restaurant in Noto for delicious food from the

11

Today I went to Kanazawa Castle and Kenrokuen Garden, and

learned about the great history here."

Just before the bus arrived at Kanazawa Station, I asked her, "Do you want to

come to Ishikawa again?" "Yes, of course," she said. "Before I came here, I was

always thinking of beautiful nature and delicious food, but..." "But what?" I asked.

"Now I really hope to meet the kind people of Ishikawa again. People who prepare

umbrellas for travelers, and people who give their seats to travelers. Thank you,

Ishikawa, for the Omotenashi." I was very happy to hear that, but at the same time I

was very surprised. I thought preparing some umbrellas was not so difficult. Also,

giving someone a seat was not a special thing to me.

This experience gave me a new way of thinking about the word Omotenashi. It

doesn't mean that we should give something great to the people visiting Ishikawa. We

can show Omotenashi just by doing something small that will make them happy. If they

become happy, they will visit Ishikawa again and that will make us happy. If we

continue this,