Hello, everyone! How was your work experience? Many of us may think that it was

very hard, but I think it was a chance to think about our future.

Mr. Yamada, our classroom teacher, told me that I was going to work at a flower

shop. I was happy because I like flowers. And at the same time I worried a little. I said,

"Can I do a good job at the shop?" Mr. Yamada said, "No one can do things well from the

beginning. Do your best. A good attitude is important."

The next week my work experience started. I tried hard to learn names of flowers.

Mr. Kimura, the shopkeeper, taught me how to keep flowers beautiful and how to cut and

wrap them. I took care of flowers as he told me, and watched how Mr. Kimura did his

job. In the afternoon, when he was taking care of some customers, a woman came into

the shop and talked to me. It was my first time to help a customer! She said, "I would

like some roses," and asked me to choose some red ones. I took some and broke one by

mistake. I got embarrassed. When I tried to wrap them, I couldn't do it well. I thought,

"Mr. Kimura, help me!" Then she smiled at me and said, "You don't have to do it quickly.

Take your time. I'll wait." When I finished it, Mr. Kimura came and helped me to take

the money from her. When she was leaving, I tried to say, "Thank you very much"

cheerfully because I knew her smile and kind words helped me. After she left, Mr.

Kimura said, "Good job, Kenji! You were a little embarrassed but she looked very happy

with your good attitude and your Thank you." His words encouraged me to work very

hard until my last day.

Sometimes my work experience was hard. But I found out a lot of things about

flowers and learned what Mr. Kimura does in his shop. And also I have found out how

happy I am when customers are happy. I cannot tell what job I want to have in the

future, but I hope I will have good encounters with others in my job. Thank you.

Hello, everyone. Today I'm going to talk about our school trip to Kyoto. On the first

day we visited some places in a group. We went to Kiyomizu-dera and some souvenir

shops. After that we had lunch. When I tried to pay, I found I didn't have my purse. I

looked into my bag and then looked around the restaurant, but I couldn't find it. I didn't

know what to do.

"Let's go back," a friend said. Everyone looked for my purse. While I was looking

for it, I remembered my mother's words. "You'll have a lot of money, so you should keep

your money in two purses. It will be safer." Then she gave me another purse. I always

thought she treated me like a child. "I don't need it," I said. I took only one purse on the

trip.

We looked for my purse for a long time, but we couldn't find it. So we called our

teacher. He said, "Come back to the hotel." At the hotel restaurant I didn't want to eat

dinner. Our teacher saw my sad face and said to me, "Are you OK? Don't worry too

much about it."

Just then, a man came in and said to our teacher, "A student's purse was brought to

the front desk." So I went there. "That's my purse!" I shouted. A clerk from one of the

souvenir shops brought it to the hotel. I said, "Thank you very much," but wondered how

he knew it was mine, so I asked him. When he was closing the shop, he found my purse

and a small piece of paper in it. My name and the name of our school were written on it.

He called the school and a teacher told him the name of our hotel. Do you know who put

the paper in my purse? - My mother did!

I'll never forget people's kindness during this trip. My friends in the group tried to

find my purse, so they couldn't go to Ginkaku-ji during the afternoon. The shop clerk was

tired after work, but came to the hotel late in the evening. And now I know that my

mother sometimes takes care of me so much because she loves me. Thank you.
On my way to school, there is an old man with a yellow flag at a crosswalk. He uses

it to stop the cars and watches us as we walk across the street. Every day he says good

morning to the children. Some of them say, "Good morning," in a cheerful voice, but some

say it in a very small voice and just walk by him. I was one of them.

One day I caught a cold and stayed in bed for three days. After I got better, I

walked to school. He said to me, "I didn't see you for a few days. Are you OK today?" I

was surprised! He remembered my face!

A week later, there was a meeting at school and two police officers came. They told

us how to ride a bike safely and to be very careful at crosswalks. Then three traffic

safety volunteers were introduced. One of them was the old man who said, "Are you OK

today?" He said, "I am Sakai Hiroshi. Every morning, your cheerful voices and smiles

make me happy. Seven years ago, when I was driving in the morning, I was not very

careful and my car almost hit a little girl. She was surprised and started to cry. I got out

of my car and tried to talk to her, but she just ran away. I felt very sorry because I

couldn't say anything to her. She was as old as my granddaughter, and I still remember

her crying face. After that, I wanted to do something for children, so I started to work as

a volunteer for children's safety and watch them on their way to school."

I was impressed and thought about many things. He had a bad experience, but he

started volunteer work after that. He watches us every day, even when it rains or snows.

He remembers our faces, too. There are also many other volunteers around me. I knew

my family, my friends and my teachers think about me, but I didn't know other people do,

too. I am watched by many people in my community! When I learned this, my heart

became warm. I felt a strong connection with them.

The next morning, I said in a loud voice with a smile, "Good morning, Mr. Sakai.

Thank you very much."

This summer I visited Canada and stayed with a family in a small town for three

weeks. My host sister was Sara. She was sixteen. We spent a lot of time together

outdoors and I felt very close to nature. It was a wonderful feeling.

My host family went camping every Saturday. We enjoyed riding in a boat on the

lake and walking in the forest. By a big tree, Sara told me to close my eyes. Then, she

said, "Put your hands on the tree and then put your ear to it." I listened hard and heard a

very small sound. I knew it had life, just like me.

One night, my host family went out by car. After about an hour, we stopped in a big

field and got out of the car. Sara said to me, "Have you ever been away from the city

lights?" Then, my host father turned off the car lights. It was all black. No one said

anything. The only sound I heard was the grass in the wind. I had a strange feeling. I

felt I was very small, like a piece of the grass in the field. After we got into the car, Sara

said to me, "How did you feel?" I said, "It was very strange. I felt I was very small, like

a piece of the grass." "That's interesting. I felt like the wind," said Sara.

On the last night, Sara and I slept in the backyard. The sky was full of stars. She

said to me, "The stars are so beautiful. When I'm looking at the stars, I feel so happy." I

said, "Yes, the stars give us peace of mind. I've really enjoyed the beautiful outdoors

since I came to Canada, so I've become close to nature. Thank you very much, Sara."

"My pleasure. Thank you, Naoko," she said.

Now in Japan, I still feel very close to nature. I like the smell of the grass

in the park. I like to look at the different kinds of green in the trees. Also, I enjoy

the sounds of the river on my way to school. Nature is with me all the time and

About six months ago, I saw a picture of my friend, Akio, in the library news. It was

in front of the school library. He was smiling with a book in his hand. I wasn't reading

very much at that time, but I started to enjoy reading again that day. I'll tell you why.

When I was little, my mother always read books to me before I slept. They were

interesting to me. In elementary school, I liked to read the books in our classroom. Also,

going to the school library was fun. I spent three or four days in a week there and read

stories, picture books and newspapers. I couldn't think of life without books.

When did I stop reading books for fun? It was after I became a junior high school

student. The baseball club members practice a lot every day, so I didn't have time to

read. When I was reading the library news six months ago, Akio saw me and said, "I've

never seen you here before." Then, he went into the library. I walked in, too. He showed

me a book and said, "This book is very interesting. I think you'll like it, too." I looked at

the book and said to myself, "Akio practices baseball with me late every day, but he still

finds time to read. He reads so many books!" The book was the life story of a baseball

player. I liked that baseball player very much, so I decided to borrow it.

Now I really love that story. The baseball player made people around the world

excited. Then, one day he had a car accident and was in the hospital for ten months.

This changed his life. He decided to help people with difficulties. He gave baseball

tickets to sick children. He began to teach baseball in poor countries. I was impressed by

his life. I liked the player before I read about him, but now I like him better than before.

We can change our difficulties into something good. The book changed my view of life.

I've found many good books and they've taught me a lot of things. It is interesting

to learn new things and see many different views of life. Also, it is exciting to

read about things we can never do in real life. You should go to the library.

are waiting for you there.

Good morning. Do you remember this picture? Last month, Saki, Kazu and I gave

you a presentation about this school. I worked hard with them. My speech is about

things I learned through the Period for Integrated Studies.

When Saki, Kazu and I started to study about world problems three months ago, we

were interested in many of them, and we couldn't choose one problem for our

presentation. So we went to the library. I found an interesting book written in Japanese

and English. It was "If the World Were a Village of 100 People". It said, "61 people are

from Asia." It also said, "14 cannot read." I was surprised because about 99% of people

in Japan can read. Kazu asked Saki, "Why are there so many people who can't read in the

world?" but she couldn't answer. I said, "I'm not sure, but maybe many children can't

study at school." Then we decided to find an answer to the question.

We used the Internet and found the picture I showed you. The school has too many

students in a classroom, and only a few students have textbooks. When we talked about

the school with our teacher, Mr. Tanaka, he said, "Why don't you listen to someone who

has been to that country?" It was a good idea. We visited City Hall. A woman there told

us about a doctor, Mr. Nishi. He was in that country for six months and sometimes

visited schools as a volunteer doctor. He said, "There aren't enough schools. Some

children want to learn at school, but they have to take care of their little brothers and

sisters. Other children have to work to get food and water for their families." When I

listened to him, the children's lives impressed me. I said to myself, "It's not easy to

ans

Last summer I went to New York and stayed with the Brown family, Mr. and

Mrs. Brown and their son Tom, for two weeks. Everyone in the host family was always

kind to me. When I told Mr. and Mrs. Brown about my family and showed them some

pictures, they listened to me carefully. Tom is as old as I. We listened to music together

and talked about our favorite singers. Now I'm going to tell you about things I learned

during this stay.

First, about making words short. I heard the word OJ for the first time when I went

to a hamburger shop with Tom. He said to the clerk, "One OJ, please." I asked him,

"What's OJ? What does it mean?" He answered, "Well, you'll see." Can you guess what

it means? He showed me his cup. "Wow, OJ is short for orange juice! We also make

words short in Japanese. English and Japanese are very different, but this is the same.

It's interesting," I said to him.

Second, I learned that they have futons in America. On the fifth day, Mrs. Brown

said to me, "How do you like our futon? Do you use a futon in your home in Japan, too?"

Her words surprised me. "The word futon came from the Japanese word futon! I didn't

notice that because the two words sounded different," I said to her. At night on the first

day, she told me to use the futon, and I slept on that nice sofa. The thing she called a

futon wasn't like futon used in Japan. I said, "The word is the same, but the meanings

are different. How interesting!"

Visiting another country is wonderful. It teaches us a lot of things. Now I think it is

very interesting to know things that are the same or different between languages. This is

one of the good things that we can learn in other countries. If

we can

think more about our own language.

On the last day, Mr. Brown said to me, "Come back here, Kenji. This is also your

home." I was moved by his words and said, "I'll come back again to study English more."

I still keep them in mind and I'll never forget them.

swer our question. One problem comes from other problems. I can't do anything great,

but I can do something for an NGO working to build a new school."

From now, I will have a lot of questions. Maybe I can find an answer for them, or

maybe I can't, but it's important to look for an answer. And it's interesting to learn about

something new. After I learn something, I always want to know more about it. I will

never stop learning all my life. Someday I want to visit the school in this picture and I

will



It is sometimes difficult to go to sleep when we have a problem. But I found a good

way to get out of the problem. Today I'd like to share it with you.

Last year our class sang two songs in the school festival. My best friend, Mayumi,

played the piano for us. A week before the festival we had a problem. One of the songs

was too difficult, and Mayumi always stopped at the same part. She said, "I can't do this.

Can anyone else play the piano?" But Mayumi was the best player. "No one else can do

it. You should work harder," I said. "I'm practicing hard!" cried Mayumi and began to

play the piano again. No one enjoyed the practice after that.

On that night I couldn't sleep. I thought about Mayumi in bed. I said a bad thing

when I should be kind to her. I didn't know what I should do.

I went to drink some water. Then my mother came up to me and said, "You can't go

to sleep?" I told her about the mistake I made on that day. I wanted to go back to that

moment and shut my mouth.

My mother said to me, "The words you have said will never come back to your

mouth. What can you do now to change the future?"

I went back to bed and thought, "What can I do tomorrow? First I will say 'I'm

sorry,' to Mayumi. Next we should talk about the way to sing that song. Everyone

practiced it very hard, so we want to sing it. But the best pianist in the class can't play

it." Then I had a good idea. If two players play the song together, it may be easier. This

idea made me happy, and I went to sleep.

My idea worked well, and the chorus moved everyone in the hall. From this

experience I learned an important thing about life. When I cannot sleep because of a

problem, I always tell myself to think only about the future. If you know how to make a

change the next morning, you will feel better. I believe this will help you too when you

have a problem.
I have a very good friend. His name is Takuya. We have been friends since we were

in elementary school. In junior high school, we played tennis together. Now I am going to

tell you about our tennis days.

"Which club will you join, Ken?" Takuya asked me when we entered our junior high

school in April. "Actually, I haven't decided yet, but have you. . ." I answered and was

going to ask him about his plan. He stopped me and said, "Let's play tennis together.

I want you to be my partner." He started playing it one year ago in elementary school.

He continued, "I've got a new racket, so you can use this old one." I was surprised to

hear that because I knew he took great care of it. A few days later I went to the tennis

club with it and became a member.

Almost every day we practiced tennis together. Everything was new to me, and it

was a lot of fun. In the summer of that year, Takuya became my partner, and we entered

a tournament for the first time. I decided to try my best on that day, but I made many

mistakes and we lost. I didn't know what to say to Takuya. I thought, "What do Takuya

and other members think about me?" I didn't want to play tennis any more. Then I did

not even speak to him. Things did not change for a while.

Then one day, Takuya talked to me, "Hi, Ken! We haven't practiced tennis together

after the tournament finished.

" I said, "If you play with me, I will

make mistakes and we will lose again. . ." He said, "If you do nothing, things will not

change and you won't be a better player." Then he smiled and said, "Making mistakes is

OK if you are trying!" I was surprised and couldn't say anything. I was afraid of playing

tennis after the tournament and did nothing. It was the biggest mistake that I have

made. His words changed my mind. After that I practiced harder, made many mistakes,

and became a better player.

Our junior high school tennis days have just finished, but I learned a lot from Takuya

through tennis. One' thing is for sure. Trying something and making mistakes is better

than doing

B . I will have chances to find something new if I try.
Hi, everyone. Now I would like to introduce my favorite Japanese word. You have

heard it many times since the Hokuriku Shinkansen started to run in Ishikawa last year.

Now I think most of you already know the answer. Yes. It's Omotenashi. When you

hear this word, you may think you have to do something special. But there are many

things you can do easily as Omotenashi. OK, now I will tell you a little about my

experience.

Last month, I took a bus to go to the concert hall near Kanazawa Station. When it

stopped at Kenrokuen-shita bus stop, a woman came on the bus with a big traveling bag

and an umbrella. The bus was very crowded and there was no seat for her. So, I stood

up and said to her, "Please sit down here." She said, "Thank you very much. People in

Ishikawa are so kind." "No, no. This is just something I always do when I meet

someone with baggage," I said. I talked with her until the bus arrived at Kanazawa

Station.

She was a traveler from Tokyo. It was the last day of her trip and she was going

to take the Shinkansen back to Tokyo. I asked, "How was your trip here in Ishikawa?"

She said, "It was great! It all started with this umbrella." "This umbrella?" I asked.

"Yes, when I arrived at Kanazawa Station on the first day, it was raining very hard. But

there were some umbrellas for travelers at the station, so I borrowed this one and

began traveling around Ishikawa. I was so happy." Then she told me many things she

loved about Ishikawa. "I went to Mt. Haku and could

the beautiful

view there.

I also visited a restaurant in Noto for delicious food from the

11

Today I went to Kanazawa Castle and Kenrokuen Garden, and

learned about the great history here."

Just before the bus arrived at Kanazawa Station, I asked her, "Do you want to

come to Ishikawa again?" "Yes, of course," she said. "Before I came here, I was

always thinking of beautiful nature and delicious food, but..." "But what?" I asked.

"Now I really hope to meet the kind people of Ishikawa again. People who prepare

umbrellas for travelers, and people who give their seats to travelers. Thank you,

Ishikawa, for the Omotenashi." I was very happy to hear that, but at the same time I

was very surprised. I thought preparing some umbrellas was not so difficult. Also,

giving someone a seat was not a special thing to me.

This experience gave me a new way of thinking about the word Omotenashi. It

doesn't mean that we should give something great to the people visiting Ishikawa. We

can show Omotenashi just by doing something small that will make them happy. If they

become happy, they will visit Ishikawa again and that will make us happy. If we

continue this,